Acquisition_Contact_Threshold__μN__ at what force does the machine decide that contact has been made? This is also the force at which the data starts, and from which point it goes back down in force, then lifts 1000 nm away from the sample, before moving towards the sample and doing the experiment properly. We trim this initial part of the data, but the metadata says at what force it should start.
Initial_Drift_Rate__nm___s__ contains a value that is unique per experiment. Right at the start of the experiment, the machine holds the tip still for a while to see how the measured displacement changes over time, influenced by environmental factors acting on the equipment, think changes in temperature and such. A change in displacement while holding the machine still is what we call "drift". Over a matter of tens of seconds (see Acquisition_Drift_Monitor_Time__s__), the machine measures this drift to see how much it has to correct for. It assumes this value to be constant during the whole experiment. Either way, this could be a value to look at when it comes to statistics
Acquisition_Lift_Height__nm__ how far did the tip lift above the sample during the first step of the experiment? In other words, how far below 0 in displacement do we go in the part of the data that we trim?
Acquisition_Maximum_Demand__µN__ what is the maximum force applied during the experiment? This is different for 6 micron experiments and 3 micron experiments; they should be 200 mN and 100 mN respectively.
Current_Area_Function_B but also C0, C1, etc. These parameters are the calibration for the shape of the tip, or rather, how much contact area the tip makes with the sample as a function of depth. There are two ways to calculate stress and strain from force and displacement. In the first method, we assume that the tip has the shape of a perfect sphere. In the other method, we perform a calibration to correct for any possible imperfections. The contact area for the shape of the tip is defined as a polynomial of up to 6th order, hence C0 to C5. The current dataset uses three or four of these, stored in these variables.
Current_Tip_Modulus__MPa__ is the modulus of the tip, used in some calculations like material hardness
Current_Tip_Poissons_Ratio poissons ratio of the tip, used in some calculations like material hardness